KIRK: Are you certain of your sensor readings? 
KIRK: Origin? 
KIRK: Thank you. 
KIRK: We're reading it, Lieutenant. I thought you said it couldn't possibly be an Earth vessel. 
KIRK: An emotional Earth weakness of mine. There it is. 
KIRK: An old Earth vessel, similar to the DY=500 class. 
KIRK: Then it's a derelict, its signal left on automatic. 
KIRK: Weapons status. 
KIRK: Bioscanners report. 
KIRK: All decks go to full alert. 
KIRK: Weapons department, maintain battle stations. All other decks standby alert. 
KIRK: Alien bodies, Bones? 
KIRK: Then you can check the registry. 
KIRK: All right, all right, gentlemen. As you were. Rig for tractor beam, Helm. Lock onto that vessel. 
KIRK: The Bridge is yours, Mister Spock. Care to join the landing party, Doctor? 
KIRK: I'm not. Oh, I'll need somebody familiar with the late 20th-Century Earth. Here's a chance for that historian to do something for a change. What's her name? McIvers? 
KIRK: Very interesting. You ready, Bones? MCCOY: No. I signed aboard this ship to practice medicine, not to have my atoms scattered back and forth across space by this gadget. 
KIRK: You're an old-fashioned boy, McCoy. Where's that historian? (McGivers enters) Come on, Lieutenant 
KIRK: Energise. 
KIRK: Scotty? 
KIRK: Suspended animation. 
KIRK: Is it possible they're still alive after centuries of travel? 
KIRK: Scotty? 
KIRK: Could he be the leader? The leader. Lieutenant? 
KIRK: The others? 
KIRK: Circuit shorting. 
KIRK: Can we? 
KIRK: What happens if we get him out of there? 
KIRK: How long have you been sleeping? Two centuries we estimate. Landing party to Enterprise. Come in. 
KIRK: Lock in on McCoy's beam. He's transporting back with a casualty we discovered here. 
KIRK: Kirk to boarding party. 
KIRK: Scotty, any records, log books of any kind? 
KIRK: How many alive? 
KIRK: Kirk out. Seventy two alive. A group of people dating back to the 1990s. A discovery of some importance, Mister Spock. There are a great many unanswered questions about those years. 
KIRK: Botany Bay. That was the name of a penal colony on shores of Australia, wasn't it? If they took that name for their vessel 
KIRK: Oh? 
KIRK: Yes. So much for my theory. I'm still waiting to hear yours. 
KIRK: And that irritates you, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Yeah. 
KIRK: My apologies, Mister Spock. You suspect some danger in them? 
KIRK: Well, we'd better get some facts. Rig for towing. 
KIRK: Make course for Starbase Twelve. 
KIRK: Bones? 
KIRK: My compliments. 
KIRK: An improved breed of human. That's what the Eugenics War was all about. 
KIRK: I'd like to talk to you. 
KIRK: If I were to rate your performance as a member of the landing party today I 
KIRK: Lieutenant, at any one time, the safety of this entire vessel might depend upon the performance of a single crewman, and the fact that you find a man strangely compelling to you personally 
KIRK: And men were more adventuresome then. Bolder, more colourful. 
KIRK: Good. If I can have honesty, it's easier to overlook mistakes. That's all. 
KIRK: Fair? (leaves) 
KIRK [OC]: Bridge. 
KIRK [OC]: On my way. 
KIRK: James Kirk, commanding the starship Enterprise. 
KIRK: And your name? 
KIRK: Our heading is Starbase Twelve, a planet in the Gamma 400 star system. Our command base in this sector. Is that of any use to you? 
KIRK: Seventy two of your life-support canisters are still functioning. 
KIRK: As soon as we reach Starbase Twelve. 
KIRK: And now 
KIRK: Khan. Nothing else? 
KIRK: What was the exact date of your lift off? We know it was sometime in the early 1990s, but 
KIRK: The facts I need, Mister Khan, will take very little time. For example, the nature of your expedition. 
KIRK: Yes, I understand. You have two hundred years of catching up to do. 
KIRK: They're available to any patient on the viewing screen. Doctor McCoy will show you how to tie into the library tapes. 
KIRK: This Khan is not what I expected of a twentieth century man. 
KIRK: Common courtesy, Mister Spock. He'll spend the rest of his days in our time. It's only decent to help him catch up. Would you estimate him to be a product of selective breeding? 
KIRK: Well, they were hardly supermen. They were aggressive, arrogant. They began to battle among themselves. 
KIRK: Interesting, if true. They created a group of Alexanders, Napoleons. 
KIRK: That fact isn't in the history texts. 
KIRK: Lieutenant McGivers' idea to welcome Khan to our century. Just how strongly is she attracted to him? 
KIRK: My curiosity's official, not personal, Bones. 
KIRK: Forgive my curiosity, Mister Khan, but my officers are anxious to know more about your extraordinary journey. 
KIRK: You have a tendency to express ideas in military terms, Mister Khan. This is a social occasion. 
KIRK: You fled. Why? Were you afraid? 
KIRK: But you left at the very time mankind needed courage. 
KIRK: We? 
KIRK: Name, Khan, as we know him today. (Spock changes the picture) Name, Khan Noonien Singh. 
KIRK: He was the best of the tyrants and the most dangerous. They were supermen, in a sense. Stronger, braver, certainly more ambitious, more daring. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, we humans have a streak of barbarism in us. Appalling, but there, nevertheless. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, you misunderstand us. We can be against him and admire him all at the same time. 
KIRK: Totally. This is the Captain. Put a twenty four hour security on Mister Khan's quarters, effective immediately. 
KIRK: Unusual treatment for Khan Noonien Singh. 
KIRK: I'd like those answers now. First, the purpose of your star flight. 
KIRK: Why? Because I'm not a product of controlled genetics? 
KIRK: Thank you. They've all been answered. 
KIRK: Maintain. (he answers the intercom) Bridge. 
KIRK: Sound security alert. 
KIRK: Atmospheric controls cut off. 
KIRK: Engineering. Scotty. This is the Bridge. 
KIRK: What's going on down there? 
KIRK: Flood all decks with neural gas. 
KIRK: Contact Starbase Twelve. 
KIRK: Negative. 
KIRK: I'm a little pleased myself. Situation? 
KIRK: Our only chance is the intruder control circuit. Although he's cut it off at the Bridge. 
KIRK: Gas all decks but this one. 
KIRK: Where's Khan? 
KIRK: Kirk here. 
KIRK: This hearing is now in session. Under the authority vested in me by Starfleet Command, I declare all charges and specifications in this matter have been dropped. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, our heading takes us near the Ceti Alpha star system. 
KIRK: But no more than Australia's Botany Bay colony was at the beginning. Those men went on to tame a continent, Mister Khan. Can you tame a world? 
KIRK: Yes. I understand. Lieutenant Marla McGivers. Given a choice of court martial or accompanying them there. 
KIRK: This hearing is closed. 
KIRK: The statement Lucifer made when he fell into the pit. 'It is better to rule in hell than serve in heaven.' 
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock, it would indeed.  
KIRK: Standard orbit, Mister Painter. 
KIRK: Yes, Lieutenant. 
KIRK: Maintain transmission pattern until we've established orbit. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, there were one hundred and fifty men, women, and children in that colony. What are the chances of survivors? 
KIRK: Are you saying that those people built a future in a place knowing they might not survive? 
KIRK: And what about us? Can we afford to send people to the planet's surface? 
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Painter. Mister Spock, equip a landing party of five to accompany me to the planet's surface. Include Doctor McCoy and a biologist. I'll want them in ten minutes. 
KIRK: Another dream that failed. There's nothing sadder. It took these people a year to make the trip from Earth. They came all that way and died. 
KIRK: Actually, Mister Sandoval, we didn't come here because of your silent radio. 
KIRK: But these people shouldn't be alive. 
KIRK: Gentlemen, we're debating in a vacuum. Let's go get some answers. 
KIRK: What was the reason for the dispersal? 
KIRK: Mister Sandoval, we do have a mission here. Examinations, tests. 
KIRK: We'll try not to interfere with your work. 
KIRK: Anything? 
KIRK: Kirk here. 
KIRK [OC]: Sulu had the same observation. Any explanations? 
KIRK: Very well. Continue investigations. Kirk out. 
KIRK: Yes, especially in view of the fact that the records for this expedition indicate that they did have some for breeding and food purposes. Apparently, none of them survived. 
KIRK: Yes, I thought you might. 
KIRK: He promised to throw away his shingle. 
KIRK: Go ahead, Lieutenant. 
KIRK: Make your point. 
KIRK: It's like a jigsaw puzzle all one colour. No key to where the pieces fit in. Why? 
KIRK: Kirk here. 
KIRK: Trouble? 
KIRK: On my way. 
KIRK: What's so strange about that? 
KIRK: Instrument malfunction? 
KIRK: Mister Sandoval, within the hour I've received orders from Starfleet Command to evacuate all personnel from this colony. Naturally, you'll inform your people to begin preparations. We will have accommodations for you aboard the Enterprise. 
KIRK: It's not an arbitrary decision on my part. I have my orders. 
KIRK: What about your animals? 
KIRK: That doesn't answer my question, sir. Why did all your animals die? 
KIRK: Sandoval. 
KIRK: You're being unreasonable. 
KIRK: Excuse me. My orders are to remove all the colonists. That's exactly what I intend to do, with or without your help. 
KIRK: No, I think we'll use a 
KIRK: We have orders to evacuate all colonists to Starbase Twenty Seven. 
KIRK: No, he didn't. (gets out communicator) Spock? See to the landing parties, would you, Mister Sulu. 
KIRK: Spock? 
KIRK [OC]: Spock! 
KIRK: Spock, is that you? 
KIRK [OC]: Where are you? 
KIRK: Spock, I don't know what you think you're doing, but this is an order. Report back to me at the settlement in ten minutes. We're evacuating all colonists to Starbase Twenty Seven. 
KIRK: You don't think so, what? 
KIRK: Spock, report to me immediately. 
KIRK [OC]: Spock? Acknowledge. 
KIRK: Spock. The frequency is open, but he doesn't answer. 
KIRK: No. I thought you said you might like him if he mellowed a little. 
KIRK: You said that. 
KIRK: Yes, take over the landing party detail and start getting those colonists aboard. 
KIRK: The frequency is open. It'll act as a homing device. Contact DeSalle. Have him meet you here. Make sure the landing party work in teams of two. I don't want anybody left alone down here. 
KIRK: Spock. (clears throat) Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Mister Spock. Are you out of your mind? You were told to report to me at once. 
KIRK: You? Yes, I can see that. Miss Kalomi, you'll have to come back to the settlement and prepare to transport up to the ship. 
KIRK: Mister Sulu, Mister Spock is under arrest, and he's in your custody until we get back to the Enterprise. 
KIRK: What's? 
KIRK: I don't know what these plants are or how they work, but you're all going back to the settlement with me, and those colonists are going aboard the ship. 
KIRK: How many of those did you beam up? 
KIRK: This is the Captain. Beam me up. 
KIRK: I most certainly do. Energise. 
KIRK: Lieutenant, put me through to Admiral Komack at Starfleet. 
KIRK: What do you mean, you can't do that. Follow standard procedure. That's an order. 
KIRK: Out? 
KIRK: Get back to your stations. Get back to your stations. 
KIRK: I said get back to your station. 
KIRK: This is mutiny, mister. 
KIRK: I've heard that word a lot lately. Perfect. Everything's perfect. 
KIRK: I'll bet you've even grown your tonsils back. 
KIRK: Look, Bones, I need your help. Can you run tests, blood samples, anything at all to give us a lead on what these things are, how to counteract them? 
KIRK: Bones. Bones. 
KIRK: Where's McCoy? 
KIRK: In your own private paradise. 
KIRK: Where did they originate? 
KIRK: That's paradise? 
KIRK: No wants. No needs. We weren't meant for that. None of us. Man stagnates if he has no ambition, no desire to be more than he is. 
KIRK: Except a challenge. 
KIRK: I'm going back to the ship. 
KIRK: Engineering? Scotty? Biochemistry lab? Security? Is there anyone on board? This is the Captain. 
KIRK: Captain's log, stardate 3417.7. Except for myself, all crew personnel have transported to the surface of the planet. Mutinied. Lieutenant Uhura has effectively sabotaged the communications station. I can only contact the surface of the planet. The ship can be maintained in orbit for several months, but even with automatic controls, I cannot pilot her alone. In effect, I am marooned here. I'm beginning to realise just how big this ship really is, how quiet. I don't know how to get my crew back, how to counteract the effect of the spores. I don't know what I can offer against paradise. 
KIRK: Enterprise to Mister Spock. 
KIRK: I've joined you. I understand now. 
KIRK: There are some things in my quarters I want to pack. 
KIRK [OC]: Kirk out. 
KIRK: No. No! I can't leave! (he's very relieved) Emotions. Violent emotions. Needs. Anger. Captain's log, supplemental. I think I've discovered the answer, but to carry out my plan entails considerable risk. Mister Spock is much stronger than the ordinary human being. Aroused, his great physical strength could kill. But it's a risk I'll have to take. 
KIRK [OC]: Enterprise to Mister Spock. 
KIRK [OC]: It's Jim. 
KIRK: I've been packing some things, and I realise there's some equipment here that we should have down at the settlement. 
KIRK [OC]: You know we can't come back on board once the last of us has left. 
KIRK: No, I think you and I can handle it. Why don't you beam up now? 
KIRK: (with a large metal bar in his hand) Energising. 
KIRK: All right, you mutinous, disloyal, computerised, half-breed, we'll see about you deserting my ship. 
KIRK: What makes you think you're a man? You're an overgrown jackrabbit, an elf with a hyperactive thyroid. 
KIRK: Of course you don't understand. You don't have the brains to understand. All you have is printed circuits. 
KIRK: What can you expect from a simpering, devil-eared freak whose father was a computer and his mother an encyclopedia? 
KIRK: Your father was a computer, like his son. An ambassador from a planet of traitors. A Vulcan never lived who had an ounce of integrity. 
KIRK: You're a traitor from a race of traitors. Disloyal to the core, rotten like the rest of your subhuman race, and you've got the gall to make love to that girl. 
KIRK: Does she know what she's getting, Spock? A carcass full of memory banks who should be squatting in a mushroom, instead of passing himself off as a man? You belong in a circus, Spock, not a starship. Right next to the dog-faced boy. 
KIRK: Had enough? I didn't realise what it took to get under that thick hide of yours. Anyhow, I don't know what you're so mad about. It isn't every first officer who gets to belt his Captain several times. 
KIRK: Believe me, Mister Spock, it was painful in more ways than one. 
KIRK: You said they were benevolent and peaceful. Violent emotions overwhelm them, destroy them. I had to make you angry enough to shake off their influence. That's the answer, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: I had something else in mind. Can you put together a subsonic transmitter. Something we can hook into the communications station and broadcast over the communicator? 
KIRK: Good. Let's get to work. 
KIRK: Well, if we're both in the Brig, who's going to build the subsonic transmitter? 
KIRK: Mister Spock, Miss Kalomi is strictly your concern, but should you talk to her while she's still under the influence of the spores? 
KIRK: The Captain discovered that strong emotions and needs destroy the spore influence. 
KIRK: As though somebody had put itching powder on their skin. 
KIRK: Put him on the speaker. Kirk here. 
KIRK: Start making preparations, Mister Sandoval. We'll begin transporting your people aboard as soon as more of our crew checks in. 
KIRK: Good. 
KIRK: No, no, Bones. This time we walked out on our own. Maybe we weren't meant for paradise. Maybe we were meant to fight our way through. Struggle, claw our way up, scratch for every inch of the way. Maybe we can't stroll to the music of the lute. We must march to the sound of drums. 
KIRK: Poetry, Captain. Non-regulation. 
KIRK: We haven't heard much from you about Omicron Ceti Three, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: All right, let's assume there is a monster. What has it done? When did it start? 
KIRK: Yes, we're aware of that. If mining conditions weren't so difficult, Janus Six could supply the mineral needs of a thousand planets. But what happened? 
KIRK: Volcanic activity? 
KIRK: Same way? Burned? 
KIRK: Do you post sentries? Guards? 
KIRK: Who else has seen this? 
KIRK: Describe it. 
KIRK: That's why we're here, Mister Vanderberg. 
KIRK: I don't think we'll need to, Mister Appel. Mister Vanderberg, we'll need a complete subsurface chart of all the drifts, galleries and tunnels. 
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Vanderberg. We'll need your complete co-operation. 
KIRK: The vast number of tunnels won't make our hunting any easier. Doc? 
KIRK: Explain. 
KIRK: Strong enough to eat machinery? 
KIRK: Mister Spock.
KIRK: Mister Vanderberg, how recent are these charts? 
KIRK: Before the appearance of whatever it is? 
KIRK: I see. Mister Spock give us a report on life beneath the surface. 
KIRK: We can't cover tunnel by tunnel on foot. We must get production going again. We must have that pergium. 
KIRK: Too many tunnels. We couldn't possibly. Mister Spock, our sensors can pick up normal life functions at a considerable distance, but what about abnormal life functions? 
KIRK: Is there a replacement for that? 
KIRK: Spock, on board? 
KIRK: Mister Spock, we seem to have been given a choice. Death by asphyxiation or death by radiation poisoning. 
KIRK: Can you rig one up? It's vital. 
KIRK: How long? 
KIRK: Forty eight hours is better than nothing. Gather what you need and beam down here with it. 
KIRK [OC]: Top priority. 
KIRK: Hopefully we'll have found the missing part by then. 
KIRK: We'll have to, Chief. The alternative is to evacuate all you people up to the Enterprise. A dozen planets depend on you for pergium for their reactor. They're already screaming. Reactors closing down, life support systems 
KIRK: Do you think the creature is trying to push the colonists off the planet? 
KIRK: But why now, Mister Spock? These production facilities have been in operation for over fifty years. 
KIRK: What's that? 
KIRK: Not necessarily, Bones. I've heard of the theoretical possibility of life based on silicon. A silicon-based life would be of an entirely different order. It's possible that our phasers might not affect it. 
KIRK: All right, how about this? A creature that lives deep in the planet below us, at home in solid rock. It seems to me that in order to survive, it would have to have some form of natural armour plating. 
KIRK: But our people have phaser number two. 
KIRK: You may be right, Doctor, but at least it's something to go on. Mister Spock, have Lieutenant Commander Giotto assemble the security troops and arm them with phaser number two. You make the proper adjustments. You seem fascinated by this rock. 
KIRK: Do they tie in? 
KIRK: Speculate. 
KIRK: A short time, Mister Spock. We have very little. 
KIRK: How's it going, Scotty? 
KIRK: It has to hold longer than a bit. 
KIRK: (answers comm. beep) Kirk here. 
KIRK: I'll be right there. Kirk out. Scotty, ride herd on it. Kind words. Tender, loving care. Kiss it. Baby it. Flatter it if you have to, but keep it going. 
KIRK: You will proceed from level to level, checking out every foot, every opening. You are searching for some sort of creature which is highly resistant to phaser fire. Phasers will be set on maximum, and remember this. Fifty people have died. I want no more deaths. 
KIRK: The creature may or may not attack on sight. However, you must. It is vitally important we get this installation back into production. 
KIRK: It's one of the possibilities we've discussed. (to Vanderberg) I want your people to stay on the top level, together at a safe place. 
KIRK: Well, gentlemen, you have your instructions. Let's get at it. 
KIRK: Mister Spock? Find something? 
KIRK: Traces? 
KIRK: One of our people? 
KIRK: Come on. 
KIRK: It's only been seconds since we heard him scream. The creature must still be around. 
KIRK What is it? 
KIRK: Are you certain? 
KIRK: This tunnel goes back as far as the eye can see. Our best machinery couldn't cut a tunnel like this, not even with phasers. 
KIRK: Gone. 
KIRK: These walls are hot. 
KIRK: Yes, perfectly. 
KIRK: Yes, we saw it. Where does the tunnel go? 
KIRK: Yes. We took a bite out of it. 
KIRK: It's not animal tissue. What is it? 
KIRK: Then your guess was right. 
KIRK: Summation. 
KIRK: That would account for the tunnels. 
KIRK: Powerful enough to dissolve the door of the reactor chamber. 
KIRK: It's definitely phaser resistant. We had our weapons set for silicon and on full power, yet we only damaged it. It still lives. 
KIRK: No. No, it might require amassed phasers. 
KIRK: Commander, pass this on to your men We knew it was a killer. Now it's wounded, probably in pain somewhere back there. There's nothing more dangerous than a wounded animal. Commander Giotto, instruct your men to concentrate the search in this sector. Remind them the creature is wounded. 
KIRK: What is it, Mister Spock? 
KIRK: One creature in a hundred miles? 
KIRK: Then we're dealing with more than one creature, despite your tricorder readings, or we have a creature with an extremely long life span. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, our mission is to protect this colony, to get the pergium moving again. This is not a zoological expedition. Maintain a constant reading on the creature. If we have to, we'll use phasers to cut our own tunnels. We'll try to surround it. I'm sorry, Mister Spock, but I'm afraid the creature must die. 
KIRK: Good. 
KIRK: So it is wounded, and therefore twice as dangerous. Stay in pairs. If you see it, concentrate your phaser fire at what appears to be its head. Concentrate it. Maintain it. It is definitely resistant, but it can be hurt. And if it can be hurt, it can be killed. Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Your orders are shoot to kill. Protect yourself at all times. Commander Giotto, disperse your search parties. 
KIRK: Mister Spock. Capture it? I don't recall giving any such order. 
KIRK: I will lose no more men. The creature will be killed on sight and that's the end of it. 
KIRK: Mister Spock. I want you to assist Scotty in maintaining that makeshift circulating pump. 
KIRK: You heard me. It's vital that we keep that reactor in operation. Your scientific knowledge 
KIRK: Mister Spock, you are second in command. This will be a dangerous hunt. Either one of us by himself is expendable. Both of us are not. 
KIRK: 2,228.7 to 1? Those are pretty good odds, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Of course. Well, I hate to use the word, but logically, with those kind of odds, you might as well stay. But please stay out of trouble, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Kirk here. 
KIRK: Can you fix it again? 
KIRK: Start immediate evacuation of all colonists to the Enterprise. 
KIRK: We haven't enough phasers for you. 
KIRK: Good. Get everybody else aboard the Enterprise. The fewer people we have breathing the air down here, the longer the rest of us will be able to hold out. How much longer, Scotty? 
KIRK: We'll do our best. Start feeding us constant status reports, Scotty. Vanderberg, you and your crew assemble at level twenty three, checkpoint Tiger. Kirk out. 
KIRK: Team up with the Enterprise security personnel. They're better armed than you. Keep someone in sight at all times. Vanderberg, take two men. Go through that tunnel there. Rendezvous with Commander Giotto. Appel and the rest of the men, go through there and tie up with Lieutenant Osborne's detail. Mister Spock and I will control the operation from a central point. That's all. 
KIRK: Mister Spock? 
KIRK: Are you sure? Intuition? 
KIRK: The chart says both of these tunnels converge a few thousand yards further. You take the left. I'll take the right. 
KIRK: Two tunnels, two of us. We separate. 
KIRK: Mister Spock. 
KIRK: I've found a whole layer of these silicon nodules of yours, hundreds of them. 
KIRK: Explain. 
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock, I'm all right. We seem to have had a cave-in. 
KIRK [OC]: No. No, no, you'd better not. Any disturbance might bring down the rest of the wall. 
KIRK: Besides, it isn't necessary. The chart said the tunnels meet further on. 
KIRK: Very well, Mister Spock. I'll meet you at the other end. 
KIRK: Kirk here. 
KIRK: It's not necessary, Mister Spock. I know exactly where the creature is. 
KIRK: Ten feet away from me. 
KIRK: It's not making any threatening moves, Spock. 
KIRK: I thought you were the one who wanted it kept alive, captured if possible. 
KIRK: It seems to be waiting. 
KIRK: (sitting down) Well, what do we do, just talk it over? 
KIRK: Well, you can be hurt, can't you? We just sit here? It's your move. 
KIRK: No, no! Don't shoot. Come on over, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: No. It seems to be waiting. I tried talking to it, but it didn't do any good. 
KIRK: Yes, they're all through here, all over the place. Thousands of them. 
KIRK: Does it means something to you? 
KIRK: You think you can get through to that thing? 
KIRK: Mister Spock, I know it's a terrible personal lowering of mental barriers but if there's a chance 
KIRK: No kill I. What is that, a plea for us not to kill it, or a promise that it won't kill us? 
KIRK: A Horta. A Horta! Mister Spock, we need that retardation mechanism. You must re-establish communications with it. 
KIRK: Yes, I'm aware of that. If we could only win its confidence. Doctor McCoy, this is Captain Kirk. 
KIRK: Grab your medical kit and come down here on the double. I've got a patient for you. 
KIRK: Never mind. Just come down to the twenty third level. You'll be led to us by tricorder readings. Kirk out. 
KIRK: He's a healer, let him heal. Mister Spock, you must re-establish communications. I want to know why it suddenly took to murder. 
KIRK: We've seen how the creature destroys. 
KIRK: Lieutenant Commander Giotto. 
KIRK: Perfectly all right. Where are you? 
KIRK: Under no circumstances allow them in here yet. The minute Doc McCoy gets there, send him through. 
KIRK: It's wounded. Badly. You've got to help it. 
KIRK: Go take a look. 
KIRK: Help it. Treat it. 
KIRK: You're a healer. There's a patient. That's an order. Mister Spock. Tell it we're trying to help. The mechanism. 
KIRK: Mister Spock. Mister Spock. Spock. Spock! Come out of it. I found the unit in there. It's in pretty good shape. I also found about a million of these silicon nodules. They're eggs, aren't they? 
KIRK: The miners must have broken into the hatchery. Their operations destroyed thousands of them. No wonder. 
KIRK: How are you doing, Doc? 
KIRK: Don't fire. First man that fires is dead. 
KIRK: You've killed thousands of her children. 
KIRK: Those round silicon nodules that you've been collecting and destroying? They're her eggs. Tell them, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: The Horta is intelligent, peaceful, mild. She had no objection to sharing this planet with you, till you broke into her nursery and started destroying her eggs. Then she fought back in the only way she knew how, as any mother would fight when her children are in danger. 
KIRK: This is where they live. They digest rock, they tunnel for nourishment. 
KIRK: Yes, I know. Here's your circulating pump. You've complained this planet is a mineralogical treasure house if you had the equipment to get at it. Gentlemen, the Horta moves through rock the way we move through air, and it leaves tunnels. The greatest natural miners in the universe. It seems to me we could make an agreement, reach a modus vivendi. They tunnel. You collect and process, and your process operation would be a thousand times more profitable. 
KIRK: Can you help it? 
KIRK: How? 
KIRK: Well, Spock, I'm going to have to ask you to get in touch with the Horta again. Tell her our proposition. She and her children can do all the tunnelling they want. Our people will remove the minerals, and each side will leave the other alone. Think she'll go for it? 
KIRK: Very good, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Fine. Yes, Chief. Kirk here. 
KIRK: I'm delighted to hear that, Chief. Once Mother Horta tells her kids what to look for, you people are going to be embarrassingly rich. 
KIRK: Our pleasure, Chief. Kirk out. 
KIRK: She really liked those ears? 
KIRK: Because she approved of you? 
KIRK: Does not bear close examination, Mister Spock. I suspect you're becoming more and more human all the time. 
KIRK: Ahead, warp factor two. 
KIRK: Good. (puts it into a decoder) We both guessed right. Negotiations with the Klingon Empire are on the verge of breaking down. Starfleet Command anticipates a surprise attack. We are to proceed to Organia and take whatever steps are necessary to prevent the Klingons from using it as a base. 
KIRK: Organia's description, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Another Armenia, Belgium. 
KIRK: The weak innocents who always seem to be located on the natural invasion routes. 
KIRK: Configuration, Mister Sulu. 
KIRK: Phaser banks, lock on. Return fire. Maintain firing rate. One hundred percent dispersal pattern. 
KIRK: Damage control, report to the first officer. 
KIRK: All hands, maintain general alert. Hold battle stations. Damage report, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Maintain surveillance, Mister Sulu. 
KIRK: Well, we've been anticipating an attack. I'd say what we've just experienced very nearly qualifies. 
KIRK: Well, there it is. War. We didn't want it, but we've got it. 
KIRK: War or not, we've still got a job to do. Denying Organia to the Klingons. 
KIRK: Lay in a course for Organia, Mister Sulu. 
KIRK: We won't get it by talking about it. The trigger's been pulled. We have to get there before the hammer falls. Ahead warp factor seven. 
KIRK: What bearing? 
KIRK: Mister Sulu, have the phaser crews stand by their positions. Full power deflector screens. 
KIRK: Mister Spock and I are going to the planet's surface. You will be in command. Your responsibility is to the Enterprise, not to us. Is that clear? 
KIRK: The Klingon fleet is in this quadrant. We know that Organia will be a target. If they should emerge 
KIRK: You will evaluate the situation. If there is a fleet of them, you'll get out of here, Mister Sulu. 
KIRK: No buts. You'll get to safety and alert the fleet. You will not attack alone. Mister Spock and I will be all right. Mister Spock, let's you and I pay the Organians a visit. 
KIRK: You'd think they had people beaming down every day. 
KIRK: Yes. A fortress, perhaps. A castle. 
KIRK: Reception committee? 
KIRK: I am Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the United Federation of Planets. This is my first officer Mister Spock. 
KIRK: I would like to speak to someone in authority. 
KIRK: You people are in great danger. Is there someplace we can go and talk? 
KIRK: Gentlemen, my government has informed me that the Klingons are expected to move against your planet with the objective of making it a base of operation against the Federation. My mission, frankly, is to keep them from doing it. 
KIRK: No, sir. With the Federation, you have a choice. You have none with the Klingons. The Klingons are a military dictatorship. War is their way of life. Life under the Klingon rule would be very unpleasant. We offer you protection. 
KIRK: You have this planet and its strategic location. I assure you that if you don't take action to prevent it, the Klingons will move against you as surely as your sun rises. We will help you build defences, build facilities. 
KIRK: Gentlemen, I have seen what the Klingons do to planets like yours. They are organised into vast slave labour camps. No freedoms whatsoever. Your goods will be confiscated. Hostages taken and killed, your leaders confined. You'd be far better off on a penal planet. Infinitely better off. 
KIRK: You keep insisting there's no danger. I keep assuring you there is. Would you mind telling me 
KIRK: That's the first thing that would be lost! Excuse me, gentlemen. I'm a soldier, not a diplomat. I can only tell you the truth. 
KIRK: Certainly. 
KIRK: That doesn't seem likely. 
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. That might be useful. 
KIRK: Gentlemen, I must get you to reconsider. We can be of immense help to you. In addition to military aid, we can send you specialists, technicians. We can show you how to feed a thousand people where one was fed before. We can help you build schools, educate the young in the latest technological and scientific skills. Your public facilities are almost non-existent. We can help you remake your world, end disease, hunger, hardship. All we ask in return is that you let us help you. Now. 
KIRK: (answering communicator) Excuse me, sir. Kirk here. 
KIRK [OC]: Positive identification? 
KIRK: Mister Sulu, follow your orders. Get out of here. Contact the fleet. Return if the odds are more equal. Kirk out. Gentlemen, you kept insisting that there was no danger 
KIRK: Can you verify that? 
KIRK: If you had listened to me 
KIRK: How does he know that? 
KIRK: So we're stranded here, in the middle of a Klingon occupation army. 
KIRK: You have a gift for understatement, Mister Spock. It's not a very pleasant prospect at all. 
KIRK: Did you take them? 
KIRK: I must ask you to return them. 
KIRK: They know that Vulcan is a member of the Federation. 
KIRK: What about the rest of you? 
KIRK: You have a lot to learn, sir. And if I know the Klingons, you'll be learning it the hard way. 
KIRK: I have a tongue. 
KIRK: My what? 
KIRK: He's no spy. 
KIRK: He's done nothing. Nothing at all. 
KIRK: You're here. There's nothing I can do about it. 
KIRK: You need my approval? 
KIRK: You seem to be in command. 
KIRK: Me? I don't want the job. 
KIRK: And Mister Spock? 
KIRK: He is my friend. 
KIRK: I don't understand. 
KIRK: And you're proud of it. 
KIRK: Are you sure you're all right? 
KIRK: Or I will be killed. 
KIRK: That mindsifter can't be all the terror they think it is. 
KIRK: I'll try and avoid it. 
KIRK: You didn't really think I was going to beat his head in, did you? 
KIRK: You're right. But as you say, we still have a job to do. 
KIRK: Maybe, but sooner or later they'll start resenting how the Klingons run things. If we could prove to them they could do something to strike back, to keep the Klingons off balance. 
KIRK: That's exactly what I had in mind. Mister Spock Did I or did I not see something that looked like a munitions dump outside of Kor's headquarters? 
KIRK: I think it's time we did a little simple and plain communicating. Tonight. 
KIRK: We're short of tools. 
KIRK: Okay so far. Sonic grenade? 
KIRK; Good. 
KIRK: You were right, Mister Spock. A most satisfactory display. 
KIRK: Of course we blew it up. Deliberately. 
KIRK: We did it to show you that you can fight back. You don't have to be sheep, you can be wolves. 
KIRK: History is full of examples of civil populations fighting back successfully against a military dictatorship. We may not be able to destroy the Klingons, but we can tie them up. Blow up their installations, disrupt their communications, make Organia useless to them. 
KIRK: Why? Are you afraid of retribution? Does your personal freedom mean so little to you? 
KIRK: All I understand is that you apparently don't have the backbone to fight and protect your loved ones. 
KIRK [OC]: I speak of courage, gentlemen. Does courage mean so little to you? 
KIRK: Ayelborne! 
KIRK: I'm used to the idea of dying, but I have no desire to die for the likes of you. 
KIRK: No, thank you. 
KIRK: What do you want from me? 
KIRK: You think I'm going to sit here and just talk with the enemy? 
KIRK: Something was destroyed? Nothing inconsequential, I hope. 
KIRK: We're nothing like you. We're a democratic body. 
KIRK: It's a very large universe, Commander, full of people who don't like the Klingons. 
KIRK: Go climb a tree. 
KIRK: It will take a lot longer than that, Commander. 
KIRK: How much of the twelve hours do we have left? 
KIRK: I think we can count on them being punctual. Blowing that munitions dump wasn't enough. If we get out of here, we've got to carry the attack directly to Kor. These Organians 
KIRK: Nevertheless, our orders still stand. We've got to make some attempt to neutralise the Klingon occupation. 
KIRK: And there are guards every few feet down the hall. 
KIRK: Go? 
KIRK: You turned us over to them. You expect us to trust you now? 
KIRK: We can't stay here. This is the first place they'll look. 
KIRK: First you turn us in, then get us out. What are you doing now, waiting for the Klingons to post a reward so you can turn us in again and collect it? 
KIRK: What happened to them? 
KIRK: Is that's all you can do, smile? 
KIRK: I want to know how I'm free, and why. 
KIRK: This idiotic placidity of yours, your refusal to do anything to protect yourselves 
KIRK: Those are Klingon phasers. Take the door. Get down, gentlemen. 
KIRK; Two hundred of them. 
KIRK: Did you hear them? 
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock. It seems it's up to you and me. 
KIRK: The Federation has invested a great deal of money in our training. They're about due for a small return. We have two hours with which to do it in. 
KIRK: No. No more will die on account of us, Mister Spock. Where are those phasers? 
KIRK: You've told us a great deal about how you hate violence. Unless you tell me where those phasers are, you're going to have more violence than you know what to do with. 
KIRK: It's entirely up to you. 
KIRK: Gentlemen, I have no great love for you, your planet, your culture. Despite that, Mister Spock and I are going to go out there and quite probably die, in an attempt to show you that there are some things worth dying for. 
KIRK: Come on, Mister Spock, let's get out of here. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, can we get those two guards? What would you say the odds on our getting out of here? 
KIRK: Difficult to be precise? 7,824 to 1?
KIRK: That's a pretty close approximation. 
KIRK: You do quite well. Set your phaser on stun. We're after the top dog, not the members of the pack. 
KIRK: But if the situation calls for it, we kill, is that clear? 
KIRK: I'll take the one on the left. Fire. 
KIRK: If you don't tell me what I want to know, I'll kill you here and now. Is that clear? 
KIRK: Is Kor's office down there? 
KIRK: What about the hostages? Talk. Talk. 
KIRK: To be killed? 
KIRK: Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Well, what are the odds now? 
KIRK: Less than seven thousand to one. Well, getting better. Getting better. 
KIRK: Just stay where you are, Commander. 
KIRK: Checkmate, Commander. 
KIRK: I don't intend to kill you unless I have to. 
KIRK: Cover, Spock! Back! 
KIRK: What is it, Spock? 
KIRK: You are stopping this? You? 
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in. 
KIRK: Stand by, Sulu. 
KIRK: What have you done? 
KIRK: You're talking nonsense. 
KIRK: You can't just stop the fleet. What gives you the right? 
KIRK: We have legitimate grievances against the Klingons. They've invaded our territory, killed our citizens. They're openly aggressive. They've boasted that they'll take over half the galaxy. 
KIRK: You're the ones who issued the ultimatum to withdraw from the disputed areas! 
KIRK: You should be the first to be on our side. Two hundred hostages killed. 
KIRK: Even if you have some power that we don't understand, you have no right to dictate to our Federation 
KIRK: How to handle their interstellar relations! We have the right 
KIRK: Well, no one wants war. But there are proper channels. People have a right to handle their own affairs. Eventually, we would have
KIRK: What do you mean, beings like yourselves? 
KIRK: But what about this planet? The fields, the buildings, this citadel? 
KIRK: Well, Commander, I guess that takes care of the war. Obviously, the Organians aren't going to let us fight. 
KIRK: I'm embarrassed. I was furious with the Organians for stopping a war I didn't want. We think of ourselves as the most powerful beings in the universe. It's unsettling to discover that we're wrong. 
KIRK: Oh, no, no, no, Mister Spock, We didn't beat the odds. We didn't have a chance. The Organians raided the game.  
KIRK: Stay on top of it, Mister Sulu. 
KIRK: Understood, Engineer. Mister Spock? We can't avoid these areas of turbulence. 
KIRK: Sickbay. To the Bridge. 
KIRK: Spock? 
KIRK: Maintain orbit. Open the channel to Starfleet Command. Precautionary measure, Lieutenant. Broadcast to Starfleet Command my past week's log entries, starting with the unusual readings we had on the instruments and how they led us here. Inform Starfleet Command that apparently something or someone down on this planet 
KIRK: (pointing to Sulu) Bones. Can effect changes in time, causing turbulent waves of space displacement. 
KIRK: Tricky stuff. Are you sure you want to risk 
KIRK: Who, me, Doctor? 
KIRK: Mister Spock? 
KIRK: Bones! Get back to your positions. 
KIRK: It was set for cordrazine. 
KIRK: Communications, emergency medical team. 
KIRK: Security alert. 
KIRK: Continue alert, decks four through eleven. The medical department knows as little as we do. In dosages approaching this, there's some record of wild paranoia. 
KIRK: Bridge here. Go ahead. 
KIRK: So whatever's down there, McCoy is in the heart of it. Set up a landing party. Let's go get him. Kirk out. 
KIRK: These ruins extend to the horizon. Begin recording. 
KIRK: Detail, fan out. What is this thing, Mister Spock? It seems to be pulsating with power of some kind. Analysis, please. 
KIRK: That's funny. 
KIRK: Explain. 
KIRK: Then what is it? 
KIRK: What are you? 
KIRK: Are you machine or being? 
KIRK: Annoyed, Spock? 
KIRK: Spock! If that is a doorway back through time, could we somehow take Bones back a day in time, then 
KIRK: Guardian. Can you change the speed at which yesterday passes? 
KIRK: Strangely compelling, isn't it? To step through there and lose oneself in another world. 
KIRK: Bones, no! 
KIRK: Where is he? 
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Scotty. 
KIRK: McCoy has somehow changed history. 
KIRK: Earth's not there. At least, not the Earth we know. We're totally alone. 
KIRK: Make sure we arrive before McCoy got there. It's vital we stop him before he does whatever it was that changed all history. Guardian, if we are successful 
KIRK: Scotty, when you think you've waited long enough. Each of you will have to try it. Even if you fail, at least you'll be alive in some past world somewhere. 
KIRK: I've seen old photographs of this period. An economic upheaval had occurred. 
KIRK: We seem to be costumed a little out of step with the time. 
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock, if we can't disguise you, we'll find some way of explaining you. 
KIRK: Let's get out of here. 
KIRK: Well, we'll steal from the rich and give back to the poor later. I think I'm going to like this century. Simple, easier to manage. We're not going to have any difficulty explaining 
KIRK: You're a police officer. I recognise the traditional accoutrements. 
KIRK: My friend is obviously Chinese. I see you've noticed the ears. They're actually easy to explain. 
KIRK: The unfortunate accident he had as a child. He caught his head in a mechanical rice picker. But fortunately, there was an American missionary living close by who was actually a skilled plastic surgeon in civilian life. 
KIRK: Oh, how careless of your wife to let you go out that way. 
KIRK: You were actually enjoying my predicament back there. At times, you seem quite human. 
KIRK: Sorry. 
KIRK: Time we faced the unpleasant facts. 
KIRK: Arrives where? Honolulu, Boise, San Diego? Why not Outer Mongolia, for that matter? 
KIRK: And the same currents that swept McCoy to a certain time and place might sweep us there, too. 
KIRK: Couldn't you build some form of computer aid here? 
KIRK: Yes, well, it would pose an extremely complex problem in logic, Mister Spock. Excuse me. I sometimes expect too much of you. 
KIRK: Excuse us, miss. We didn't mean to trespass. It's cold outside. 
KIRK: No. We were being chased by a policeman. 
KIRK: These clothes. We stole them. We didn't have any money. 
KIRK: Mine is Jim Kirk. His is Spock. 
KIRK: Excuse me, Miss. Where are we? 
KIRK: Do you run this place? 
KIRK: Radio tubes and so on. I approve of hobbies, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Why? 
KIRK: Shut up. Shut up. I want to hear what she has to say. 
KIRK: Development of atomic power is years away, and space flight years after that. 
KIRK: I find her most uncommon, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: Then we can report back for other work? 
KIRK: A what? 
KIRK: Oh. 
KIRK: Thank you. 
KIRK: We have a flop. 
KIRK: A place to sleep. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, I've brought you some assorted vegetables, baloney in a hard rolls for myself, and I've spent the other nine tenths of our combined salaries for the last three days on filling this order for you. Mister Spock, this bag doesn't contain platinum, silver or gold, nor is it likely to in the near future. 
KIRK: McCoy will be along in a few days, perhaps sooner. There's no guarantee that these currents in time will bring us together. This has to work. 
KIRK: Your hat. 
KIRK: If Mister Spock says that he needs the tools and that they'll be returned tomorrow morning, you can bet your reputation on that, Miss Keeler. 
KIRK: We served together. 
KIRK: Let me help. A hundred years or so from now, I believe, a famous novelist will write a classic using that theme. He'll recommend those three words even over I love you. 
KIRK: Silly question. Want to hear a silly answer? 
KIRK: A planet circling that far left star in Orion's belt. See? 
KIRK: How are the stone knives and bearskins? 
KIRK: You may also find you have a connection burning someplace. 
KIRK: Good. 
KIRK: Let's see what you have. 
KIRK: February 23rd, 1936. Six years from now. (reading below the headline FDR confers with slum area 'angel') The President and Edith Keeler conferred for some time today 
KIRK: How bad? 
KIRK: The President and Edith Keeler. 
KIRK: We know her future. Within six years from now, she'll become very important. Nationally famous. 
KIRK: You must be mistaken. They both can't be true. 
KIRK: She has two possible futures then, and depending on whether she lives or dies, all of history will be changed. And McCoy 
KIRK: In his condition, what does he do? Does he kill her? 
KIRK: Get this thing fixed. We must find out before McCoy arrives. 
KIRK: How do you know? 
KIRK: And make them spend it on life? 
KIRK: The very same. 
KIRK: How long before we get a full answer? 
KIRK: McCoy could have been in the city a week now for all we know, and whatever he does that affects her and changes history could happen tonight or tomorrow morning. 
KIRK: I must know whether she lives or dies, Spock. I must know what to do. 
KIRK: Germany. Fascism. Hitler. They won the Second World War. 
KIRK: But she was right. Peace was the way. 
KIRK: No. 
KIRK: How did she die? What day? 
KIRK: Spock, I believe I'm in love with Edith Keeler. 
KIRK: Edith. 
KIRK: With ulterior motives. Does that please you? 
KIRK: No, of course you didn't. 
KIRK: It's not yet time. McCoy isn't here. 
KIRK: What? 
KIRK: McCoy! Leonard McCoy? 
KIRK: Stay right here. Spock! Stay right there! 
KIRK: McCoy! He's in 
KIRK: Edith. 
KIRK: Let's get the hell out of here.  
KIRK: Anything, Lieutenant? 
KIRK: Try GSK-783, sub-space frequency 3. 
KIRK: I'm very well aware of that, Lieutenant. Try it. 
KIRK: Evaluation, Mister Spock. 
KIRK: And next in line, Deneva. Bones, what's your theory about the cause of all this? 
KIRK: But it follows a definite pattern, a systematic progression from planet to planet. 
KIRK: Plot an interception course, Mister Sulu. Warp factor eight. Lieutenant Uhura, try to contact that ship. 
KIRK: Scotty, tractor beams? 
KIRK: Denevan ship, this is the USS Enterprise. Can you reverse your course? Acknowledge. 
KIRK: Keep closing. Denevan ship, reverse your course. Do you hear me? Reverse your course. Acknowledge. 
KIRK: Reverse course. One hundred and eighty degrees about. 
KIRK: Very well. Reduce to sub-warp speed. Take us to Deneva. 
KIRK: That Denevan ship headed deliberately into the sun. Why? 
KIRK: Keep trying. 
KIRK: Put it on audio. 
KIRK: Aurelan, this is Jim on the Enterprise. Repeat your message. 
KIRK: Re-establish. 
KIRK: I'm not interested in your excuses, Lieutenant. Re-establish contact with that transmitter. 
KIRK: Keep trying to raise them. 
KIRK: Yes. You were right a while back. My brother Sam lives on Deneva. He's a research biologist. That woman sounded like his wife Aurelan. 
KIRK: Set your phasers on stun. We're going to beam directly into the capital city. Alert status. Mister Spock. 
KIRK: I'll want a complete transcript of everything that happens down there, Yeoman. 
KIRK: Let's go. Energise. 
KIRK: There are almost a million inhabitants of Deneva. There's more than one hundred thousand in this city alone. Where is everyone? 
KIRK: My brother's lab is over there. They signalled us once. There should be someone there. Let's find out what's happening. 
KIRK: Stand by to fire. Fire. 
KIRK: Did you hear what they said, Mister Spock? 
KIRK: They tried to brain us with these clubs. Check them out, Bones. 
KIRK: To say the least. 
KIRK: Fan out. Follow me. Security. 
KIRK: (bearhugging her) Aurelan. 
KIRK: Bones. (McCoy sedates her) Aurelan, you're safe now. 
KIRK: Sam. It is my brother. Was my brother. 
KIRK: Peter? 
KIRK: Get ready to beam up. 
KIRK: Yes. Yes, Mister Spock. You heard my sister-in-law say something about they being here. Your guess. 
KIRK: It doesn't make sense. There are no harmful life forms reported. Our sensors didn't pick up anything that didn't belong here. 
KIRK: Take charge of the landing party, Mister Spock. I want some answers to all this. 
KIRK: Can she talk? 
KIRK: Aurelan? Aurelan, it's Jim. 
KIRK: He's dead. But your son's still alive. You've got to help us. 
KIRK: Yes, I'm here. You have to tell us what happened, Aurelan, to you and the others. 
KIRK: Who? 
KIRK: What kind of things? 
KIRK: Aurelan, it's important that you tell us. What kind of things? 
KIRK: My brother's son? 
KIRK: Report.
KIRK: You've seen some kind of creature? Any alien form? 
KIRK: All right. Let's go find out what it is. Set your phasers on force three, to kill. We're looking for some kind of creature, and we already know it will kill. 
KIRK: Spock! 
KIRK: Form a ring. Fire! 
KIRK: And it can bear up under full phaser power. 
KIRK: It's too close in here. It may be a trap in here. Let's move out. 
KIRK: Spock! Spock! (He pulls it off) It's gone. Can you stand? Spock, are you all right? 
KIRK: How is he? 
KIRK: Did you operate on Spock in time? 
KIRK: My nephew? 
KIRK: Recommendations? 
KIRK: All decks, security alert. Locate and restrain Mister Spock. He may be dangerous. Use phasers on stun if necessary. 
KIRK: Get him back to the Sickbay. Use security restraints. 
KIRK: Spock. 
KIRK: You're only half-Vulcan. What about the human half of you? 
KIRK: Can he control it the way he says, Bones? 
KIRK: I need you, Spock, but we can't take any chances. We'll keep you confined for a while longer. If you can maintain control, we'll see. My nephew. If he regains consciousness, will he go through that? 
KIRK: Help them. I don't care what it takes or costs. You've got to help them. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, I gave you an order to stay in the Sickbay. 
KIRK: Scotty? 
KIRK: Mister Spock, your logic, as usual, is inescapable. Beam him down. Stay in constant touch with us. Give him your phaser. He'll need that, too. 
KIRK: Energise. 
KIRK: I don't have to, Bones. We both know he is. 
KIRK: Yes. That would answer a lot of questions. 
KIRK: I think so. This may be one cell in a larger organism. An incredibly huge organism, in fact. 
KIRK: Existing so differently from any living matter or energy as we know it, that it may have come here, planet by planet, from an entirely different galaxy. 
KIRK: But not impossible, Mister Spock. The Denevan that flew into the sun cried out that he was free, that he'd won. That's the angle to work on, gentlemen. I want an analysis of all this from Medical and Life Science departments within the hour. 
KIRK: Then you're wasting your time. There has to be something that'll kill the creature without destroying the human host. 
KIRK: I can't accept that, Bones. We've got fourteen science labs aboard this ship. The finest equipment and computers in the galaxy. 
KIRK: No, no, Bones. There's more than two lives at stake here. I cannot let it spread beyond this colony, even if it means destroying a million people down there. 
KIRK: Gentlemen. 
KIRK: I will accept neither of those alternatives, gentlemen. I cannot let this thing expand beyond this planet, nor do I intend to kill a million or more people to stop it. I want another answer. I'm putting you gentlemen on the hot seat with me. I want that third alternative. 
KIRK: Report. 
KIRK: Request denied. 
KIRK: Request denied. There must be another answer. Something in the sun killed that thing before the Denevan died. All right. All right. We've tried heat, radiation. What other qualities or properties does the sun have? 
KIRK: But one other thing you haven't mentioned. It's bright. It radiates a blinding light if you're close enough. 
KIRK: Not to us. But down on the surface, the creatures stayed in the shadows for the most part. Suppose they weren't simply hiding. Suppose they're sensitive to light. Light, like in a sun, close up. 
KIRK: No, but you can move the equivalent of the sun to Deneva. Mister Spock? 
KIRK: Good. Let's get on it. 
KIRK: Your figures are, of course, accurate. 
KIRK: It worked in a lab. With the creature exposed to everything we can give it. But what about the people who are infected? 
KIRK: Maybe. There's no time for maybes, Bones. We need to know now. 
KIRK: Yes, we'd have to put someone who's infected under that light. 
KIRK: We have to duplicate the conditions on the planet, and Spock 
KIRK: There's no other way, Bones. We have to duplicate the brilliance that existed at the moment the Denevan declared himself freed. 
KIRK: I agree completely. 
KIRK: Proceed. 
KIRK: Spock, are you all right? 
KIRK: What is it? 
KIRK: Are you telling me that Spock need not have been blinded? 
KIRK: Bones, take care of him. 
KIRK: Good. Scanners? 
KIRK; Very well. Ready, Helm? 
KIRK: Satellite control, this is the Captain. Energise all satellites. 
KIRK: Report. 
KIRK: Sickbay. 
KIRK: Tell Spock it worked. 
KIRK: Bones, it wasn't your fault. 
KIRK [OC]: Bones. 
KIRK: Bones. 
KIRK: Yeoman, record this for Starfleet Command. 
KIRK: The alien creatures on Deneva have been destroyed 
KIRK: Spock. You can see. 
KIRK: Mister Spock. Regaining eyesight would be an emotional experience for most. You, I presume, felt nothing? 
KIRK: If you gentlemen are finished, would you mind laying in a course for Starbase Ten, Mister Spock? 
KIRK: What's that, Doctor? 
KIRK: You've been so concerned about his Vulcan eyes, Doctor, you forgot about his Vulcan ears. Ahead warp factor one, Mister Sulu. 
