SPOCK: Definitely a space vessel of some type. 
SPOCK: Unknown. It could hardly be an Earth ship. There have been no flights into this sector for years. 
SPOCK: I fail to understand why it always gives you pleasure to see me proven wrong. 
SPOCK: Much older. DY-100 class, to be exact. Captain, the last such vessel was built centuries ago, back in the 1990s. 
SPOCK: Or an old Earth ship being used by aliens. 
SPOCK: Sensor reading, Captain. Some sort of equipment functioning on that vessel. 
SPOCK: Hull surface is pitted with meteor scars. However, scanners make out a name. SS Botany Bay. 
SPOCK: No such vessel listed. Records of that period are fragmentary, however. The mid=1990s was the era of your last so-called World War. 
SPOCK: Of course. Your attempt to improve the race through selective breeding. 
SPOCK: Lieutenant McGivers. 
SPOCK [OC]: Attention. The following personnel report to transporter room. Engineering Officer Scott, Lieutenant McGivers. Acknowledge. 
SPOCK: A strange, violent period in your history. I find no record what so ever of an SS Botany Bay. Captain, the DY-100 class vessel was designed for interplanetary travel only. With simple nuclear-powered engines, star travel was considered impractical at that time. It was ten thousand to one against their making it to another star system. And why no record of the trip? 
SPOCK: If you're suggesting this was a penal deportation vessel, you've arrived at a totally illogical conclusion. 
SPOCK: Your Earth was on the verge of a dark ages. Whole populations were being bombed out of existence. A group of criminals could have been dealt with far more efficiently than wasting one of their most advanced spaceships. 
SPOCK: Even a theory requires some facts, Captain. So far I have none. 
SPOCK: Irritation? 
SPOCK: I am not capable of that emotion. 
SPOCK: Insufficient facts always invites danger, Captain. 
SPOCK: Aye, sir. 
SPOCK: I note he's making considerable use of our technical library. 
SPOCK: There is that possibility, Captain. His age would be correct. In 1993, a group of these young supermen did seize power simultaneously in over forty nations. 
SPOCK: Because the scientists overlooked one fact. Superior ability breeds superior ambition. 
SPOCK: I have collected some names and made some counts. By my estimate, there were some eighty or ninety of these young supermen unaccounted for when they were finally defeated. 
SPOCK: Would you reveal to war-weary populations that some eighty Napoleons might still be alive? 
SPOCK: And how you managed to keep it out of the history books. 
SPOCK: There was the war to end tyranny. Many considered that a noble effort. 
SPOCK: Unify, sir? Like a team of animals under one whip? 
SPOCK: Under dozens of petty dictatorships. 
SPOCK: Then your sympathies were with 
SPOCK: From 1992 through 1996, absolute ruler of more than a quarter of your world. From Asia through the Middle East. 
SPOCK: Gentlemen, this romanticism about a ruthless dictator is 
SPOCK: And as little freedom. 
SPOCK: Gentlemen. 
SPOCK: Illogical. 
SPOCK: Turbo elevators inoperative. Jammed, Captain. 
SPOCK: Useless. They're on override in Engineering. 
SPOCK: Impossible. Intruder control systems inoperative. Mister Khan was very thorough in his study of our tech manuals. 
SPOCK: Brilliant. Every contingency anticipated. 
SPOCK: Surprised to see you, Captain, though pleased. 
SPOCK: Khan is holding our staff in the briefing room. His men have control of the ship. 
SPOCK: There's a relay junction down the corridor. 
SPOCK [OC]: Anesthesia gas in all sections except Engineering. Someone just closed that line. 
SPOCK [OC]: Captain, acknowledge. Unable to flood Engineering section. I suspect 
SPOCK [OC]: Negative. We must retake the vessel while the anesthesia lasts. Meet me in the Armoury. I'm blowing it clear first. Spock out. 
SPOCK: Quite correct, Captain. Planet number five there is habitable, although a bit savage, somewhat inhospitable. 
SPOCK: It would be interesting, Captain, to return to that world in a hundred years and to learn what crop has sprung from the seed you planted today. 
SPOCK: Absolutely none, Captain. Berthold rays are such a recent discovery. We do not yet have full knowledge of their nature. It is known, however, that living animal tissue disintegrates under exposure. Sandoval's group could not have survived after three years. 
SPOCK: I am saying they knew there was a risk. 
SPOCK: The breakdown of tissue does not develop immediately. We can risk a limited exposure. 
SPOCK: Captain, this planet is being bombarded by Berthold rays, as our reports indicated. At this intensity, we'll be safe for a week if necessary. But 
SPOCK: There's also no question of the fact that Berthold rays are incontrovertibly deadly. There's no miracle connected with it, Doctor, you know that. No cures, no serums, no antidotes. If a man is exposed long enough, he dies. 
SPOCK: Spock here, Captain. There seems to be a total absence of life on the planet, with the exception of the colonists and various types of flora. 
SPOCK: Not at the moment, sir. I am conducting various tests with the tricorder, but results are inconclusive. 
SPOCK: Nothing. Not even insects. Yet your plants grow, and you've survived exposure to Berthold rays. 
SPOCK: Please do. 
SPOCK: I have never understood the female capacity to avoid a direct answer to any question. 
SPOCK: I would like to know how your people have managed to survive here. 
SPOCK: Logically, you should all be dead. 
SPOCK: Emotions are alien to me. I'm a scientist. 
SPOCK: You've not yet explained the nature of this thing. 
SPOCK: What you're describing was once known in the vernacular as a happiness pill. And you, as a scientist, should know that that's not possible. 
SPOCK: Spores? 
SPOCK: No. 
SPOCK: No, I can't. Please, don't! 
SPOCK: I am not like you. 
SPOCK: I love you. I can love you. 
SPOCK: That one looks like a dragon. You see the tail and the dorsal spines? 
SPOCK: I have. On Berengaria Seven. But I've never stopped to look at clouds before. Or rainbows. You know, I can tell you exactly why one appears in the sky, but considering its beauty has always been out of the question. 
SPOCK: Yes, what did you want? 
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. What did you want? 
SPOCK: I don't believe I want to tell you. 
SPOCK: No, I don't think so. 
SPOCK: I don't think so, sir. 
SPOCK: I didn't want to, Jim. 
SPOCK: There'll be no evacuation, Jim, but perhaps we should go back and get you straightened out. 
SPOCK: Very well. Come with me. 
SPOCK: Mister Sulu understands, don't you, Mister Sulu? 
SPOCK: I can see the Captain is going to be difficult. 
SPOCK: Almost the entire ship's complement has beamed down. 
SPOCK: He went off to create something called a mint julep. That's a drink, Jim. 
SPOCK: It's impossible to say. They drifted through space until they finally landed here. You see, they actually thrive on Berthold rays. The plants act as a repository for thousands of microscopic spores until they find a human body to inhabit. 
SPOCK: It's a true Eden, Jim. There's belonging and love. 
SPOCK: You don't understand, Jim, but you'll come around sooner or later. Join us. Please. 
SPOCK: Yes, Jim. What is it now? 
SPOCK: Wonderful, Jim. When will you beam down? 
SPOCK: Good. Leila and I will meet you at the beam down point. 
SPOCK: Spock here. 
SPOCK: What's keeping you, Jim? We've been waiting. 
SPOCK: Do you want me to beam up a party? 
SPOCK: Just a moment. It won't take long. Do you mind? 
SPOCK: Ready to beam up, Jim. 
SPOCK: The term half-breed is somewhat applicable, but computerised is inaccurate. A machine can be computerised, not a man. 
SPOCK: Jim, I don't understand. 
SPOCK: Captain, if you'll excuse me. 
SPOCK: My mother was a teacher. My father an ambassador. 
SPOCK: Captain, please don't 
SPOCK: That's enough. 
SPOCK: You did that to me deliberately. 
SPOCK: The spores. They're gone. I don't belong anymore. 
SPOCK: That may be correct, Captain, but trying to initiate a brawl with over five hundred crewmen and colonists is hardly logical. 
SPOCK: It can be done. 
SPOCK: Captain. Striking a fellow officer is a court martial offence. 
SPOCK: That is quite logical, Captain. 
SPOCK: Enterprise. Spock here. 
SPOCK: Yes. Yes. I'm quite well. 
SPOCK: Are you still at the beam down point, and is the doctor there? 
SPOCK: Give your communicator back to Doctor McCoy. You won't need it to beam up. It'll take a few moments. Just wait there. Out. 
SPOCK: I'll be back shortly, Captain. 
SPOCK: It was necessary. 
SPOCK: I can't. 
SPOCK: I have a responsibility to this ship, to that man on the Bridge. I am what I am, Leila, and if there are self-made purgatories, then we all have to live in them. Mine can be no worse than someone else's. 
SPOCK: (wiping away her tears) You couldn't pronounce it. 
SPOCK: They'll not hear this, of course. It'll be more a sensation of feeling it. 
SPOCK: Precisely. It should begin to work on their nerves in a few minutes. 
SPOCK: Enterprise. Spock here. 
SPOCK: Just a moment. They're all beginning to call in, Captain. Rather contritely, I should say. Sandoval wishes to speak to you. 
SPOCK: I have little to say about it, Captain, except that for the first time in my life I was happy.  
SPOCK: I'm sure there is an answer. It simply has not yet been discovered. 
SPOCK: There is no current volcanic activity on this planet, Captain. 
SPOCK: Oh. You mean shot at it. 
SPOCK: Fascinating. 
SPOCK: (examining a large globe from Vanderberg's desk) Mister Vanderberg, what is this? 
SPOCK: But a geological oddity, to say the least. Pure silicon? 
SPOCK: (at the mine map) I've charted the positions of the deaths and acts of sabotage. Here, here, and here. If the times of these incidents are to be accepted as accurate, the creature would have to have moved at an incredible rate of speed. 
SPOCK: If we could force another appearance of this creature 
SPOCK: I wouldn't touch it, Captain. An extremely active corrosive. Traces may linger. 
SPOCK: The same indication as shown at the door, Captain. A very strong corrosive. 
SPOCK: Nothing for a device this antiquated, Captain. 
SPOCK: The missing pump wasn't taken by accident. It was the one piece of equipment absolutely essential for the operation of the reactor. 
SPOCK: It would seem so. 
SPOCK: I don't know. But there is a possibility. 
SPOCK: Life as we know it is universally based on some combination of carbon compounds, but what if life exists based on another element? For instance, silicon. 
SPOCK: Certainly not phaser one, which is far less powerful than phaser two. 
SPOCK: It could explain much, especially since the colonists are armed only with phaser one. 
SPOCK: Which I could adjust to be more effective against silicon. 
SPOCK: It may be, Doctor, that the creature can exist for brief periods in such an atmosphere before returning to its own environment. 
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. You recall that Vanderberg commented there were thousands of these at a lower level, the level which the machinery opened just prior to the first appearance of the creature. 
SPOCK: I don't know. 
SPOCK: I have already given Doctor McCoy sufficient cause for amusement. I'd prefer to cogitate the possibilities for a time. 
SPOCK [OC]: Captain, the security officers have gathered in Chief Vanderberg's office. 
SPOCK: Mister Vanderberg, may I ask at which level you discovered the nodules of silicon? 
SPOCK: Adjusting my tricorder to register for silicon, Captain. Interesting. 
SPOCK: A life form, Captain. Bearing one hundred eleven degrees, elevation four degrees. 
SPOCK: No, sir. Silicon. 
SPOCK: He never even had a chance to fire, Captain. 
SPOCK: Captain. 
SPOCK: This tunnel. My readings indicate it was made within the hour. Moments ago, in fact. 
SPOCK: Positive. 
SPOCK: Indeed, Captain. I'm quite at a loss. 
SPOCK: Disappeared. Astonishing that anything of that bulk could move so rapidly. 
SPOCK: Indeed. This tunnel was cut within the last two minutes. 
SPOCK: Readings indicate a maze of tunnels of this general category in that direction. 
SPOCK: The closest approximation I could come to would be fibrous asbestos. A mineral, Captain. 
SPOCK: It would seem so. Silicon-based. 
SPOCK: We are dealing with a silicon creature of the deep rocks, capable of moving through solid rock as easily as we move through the air. 
SPOCK: Correct. This creature's body secretes an extremely powerful corrosive. 
SPOCK: And it explains the murdered men. 
SPOCK: Or a single phaser with much longer contact. 
SPOCK: I've run a complete spherical check on all life forms, radius one hundred miles. I've located our men, all of them, and I've located one creature moving rapidly through native rock, bearing two hundred and one. And that is all. 
SPOCK: Exactly. Captain, there are literally thousands of these tunnels in this general area alone, far too many to be cut by the one creature in an ordinary lifetime. 
SPOCK: Or it is the last of a race of creatures which made these tunnels. If so, if it is the only survivor of a dead race, to kill it would be a crime against science. 
SPOCK: I see no alternative myself, Captain. It merely seems a pity. The search team is gathering in the main tunnel. 
SPOCK: Gentlemen, if you'll examine your charts, please. I last located the creature in the area marked adit26 moving in bearing two zero one. This particular group will move out beyond that area in all directions in an effort to surround it, and possibly capture it. 
SPOCK: You did not, sir. I merely thought that if the opportunity arose 
SPOCK: Very well, sir. 
SPOCK: II beg your pardon, sir? 
SPOCK: Is not needed there, sir. Mister Scott has far more knowledge of nuclear reactors than I do. You're aware of that. 
SPOCK: Captain, there are approximately one hundred of us engaged in this search, against one creature. The odds against you and I both being killed are 2,228.7 to 1. 
SPOCK: And they are of course accurate, Captain. 
SPOCK: That is always my intention, Captain. 
SPOCK: Captain, we are being watched. 
SPOCK: No, sir. We're being watched. 
SPOCK: Captain. Fresh readings within the hour in each of these tunnels. 
SPOCK: Should we separate? 
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. 
SPOCK [OC]: Indeed? I find that most illuminating, Captain. 
SPOCK: Be absolutely certain you do not damage any of them. 
SPOCK [OC]: Only a theory I have. 
SPOCK: Captain? Are you all right? Jim? Jim! 
SPOCK: I could phaser you out. 
SPOCK: Very well, but I find it extremely disquieting that your roof chose that particular moment to collapse. Please proceed with extreme caution. I shall quicken my pace. 
SPOCK: Captain, I just read some fresh signs. 
SPOCK [OC]: The creature is in this area. I'll take a lifeform reading. 
SPOCK: Where, Captain? 
SPOCK: Kill it, Captain, quickly. 
SPOCK: You don't dare take the chance, Captain. 
SPOCK [OC]: Kill it. 
SPOCK: Jim, your life is in danger. You can't take the risk. 
SPOCK: I remind you it's a proven killer. I'm on my way. Spock out. 
SPOCK: Fascinating. It's made no moves against you? 
SPOCK: Yes, I see. 
SPOCK: Possibly the answer, Captain, but I'm not certain. Captain, you are aware of the Vulcan technique of the joining of two minds. 
SPOCK: It's possible. 
SPOCK: I'll try. 
SPOCK: Pain! Pain! Pain! (he staggers back) That's all I got, Captain. Waves and waves of searing pain. It's in agony. 
SPOCK: I don't know, Captain. Evidently, it gained an immediate knowledge of us from its empathy with me. In my brief contact with the creature's mind, I discovered it is a highly intelligent, extremely sophisticated animal. In great pain, of course, because of its wound, but not reacting at all like a wounded creature. It calls itself a Horta. 
SPOCK: Captain, it has no reason to give us the device, and apparently every reason for wishing us off this planet. 
SPOCK: Jim, I remind you that this is a silicon-based form of life. Doctor McCoy's medical knowledge will be totally useless. 
SPOCK: To obtain that kind of communication, Captain, it will be necessary to touch it. 
SPOCK: Murder. Of thousands. Devils! Eternity ends. The chamber of the ages. The altar of tomorrow! Murderers! Stop them. Kill! Strike back! Monsters! 
SPOCK: The end of life. Murderers. 
SPOCK: Understood. It is the end of life. Eternity stops. Go out into the tunnel. To the chamber of the ages. Cry for the children. Walk carefully in the vault of tomorrow. Sorrow for the murdered children. The thing you search for is there. Go. Go. Sadness. Sadness for the end of things. Go into the tunnel. There is a passageway. Quickly, quickly. 
SPOCK: (channeling the Horta) It is time to sleep. It is over. Failure. The murderers have won. Death is welcome. Let it end here. 
SPOCK: Yes, Captain, eggs and about to hatch. KIRK: The miners must have broken into the hatchery. Their operations destroyed thousands of them. No wonder. 
SPOCK: There have been many generations of Horta on this planet. Every fifty thousand years, the entire race dies, all but one, like this one, but the eggs live. She cares for them, protects them. And when they hatch, she is the mother to them, thousands of them. This creature here is the mother of her race. 
SPOCK: And they are the most inoffensive of creatures. They harbour ill will towards no one. 
SPOCK: Except for one thing. The Horta is badly wounded. It may die. 
SPOCK: It seems logical, Captain. The Horta has a very logical mind. And after close association with humans, I find that curiously refreshing. 
SPOCK: Ship ready to leave orbit, Captain. Course laid in. 
SPOCK: Chief Engineer Vanderberg standing by on channel one. 
SPOCK: Curious. What Chief Vanderberg said about the Horta is exactly what the Mother Horta said to me. She found humanoid appearance revolting, but she thought she could get used to it. 
SPOCK: Not specifically, but I did get the distinct impression she found them the most attractive human characteristic of all. I didn't have the heart to tell her that only I have 
SPOCK: Captain, the Horta is a remarkably intelligent and sensitive creature, with impeccable taste. 
SPOCK: Really, Captain, my modesty 
SPOCK: Captain, I see no reason to stand here and be insulted. 
SPOCK: Captain, we've reached the designated position for scanning the coded directive tape. 
SPOCK: Strategically sound. Organia is the only Class M planet in the disputed area, ideally located for use by either side. 
SPOCK: Inhabited by humanoids. A very peaceful, friendly people living on a primitive level. Little of intrinsic value. Approximately Class D minus on Richter's scale of cultures. 
SPOCK: Sir? 
SPOCK: We've hit him, Captain. He's hurt. 
SPOCK: Minor, Captain. We were most fortunate. Blast damage in decks ten and eleven, minor buckling in the antimatter pods, casualties very light. 
SPOCK: Yes. It would seem to be an unfriendly act. 
SPOCK: Curious how often you humans manage to obtain that which you do not want. 
SPOCK: With the outbreak of hostilities, that might not be easy. 
SPOCK: Negotiating with the Organians will be time-consuming, Captain, and time is one thing we'll have the least of. 
SPOCK: Yes. Curious lack of interest. Notice the ruins in the distance, Captain. Quite large. 
SPOCK: Whatever it is, it would seem to be inconsistent with the reports we've been given on this culture. 
SPOCK: It would seem so. 
SPOCK: Captain, if you don't mind, I should like to wander about the village and make some studies. 
SPOCK: Captain, our information on these people and their culture was not correct. This is not a primitive society making progress toward mechanisation. They are totally stagnant. There is no evidence of any progress as far back as my tricorder can register. 
SPOCK: Nevertheless, it is true. For tens of thousands of years, there has been absolutely no advancement, no significant change in their physical environment. This is a laboratory specimen of an arrested culture. 
SPOCK: Negative, Captain, but it seems a logical development. 
SPOCK: So it would seem. Not a very pleasant prospect. 
SPOCK: Captain, our phasers are gone. 
SPOCK: Vulcan merchants are not uncommon, Captain. It is a practical approach. 
SPOCK: I am Spock, a dealer in kevas and trillium. 
SPOCK: Perfectly, Baroner. But it was an interesting experience. 
SPOCK: Not necessary, Commander. I understand you very well. 
SPOCK: It should not be underestimated, Captain. It reaches directly into the mind. We Vulcans have certain mental (a Klingon walks past) certain disciplines which enable me to maintain a shield. Without those disciplines, there would be no protection. 
SPOCK: I'm sorry, sir. We did not notice you. 
SPOCK: Captain, I strongly suggest we direct our energies toward the immediate problem. Accomplishing our mission here. 
SPOCK: I thought you might. 
SPOCK: We'll receive no help from the Organians. 
SPOCK: Verbal persuasion seems to be ineffective. Perhaps a more direct approach? 
SPOCK: You did. 
SPOCK: A very meritorious idea, Captain. 
SPOCK: I'm certain the Klingons will provide whatever is necessary. It's a pleasure doing business with you, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: With a delayed action fuse. 
SPOCK: These crates contain chemical explosives. They should make a most satisfactory display. 
SPOCK: Six, five, four three. 
SPOCK: Our fleet will eventually arrive. In the meantime, the battle is ours. It can be a successful one. 
SPOCK: It's no use, Jim. There's no way out. 
SPOCK: Six hours, forty three minutes, if the Klingons are punctual. 
SPOCK: They do not seem to understand. Most peculiar. 
SPOCK: We may not get the chance, Captain. These walls are very thick. 
SPOCK: Nor do we understand what happened to the guard at the citadel. 
SPOCK: Indeed, there are several questions I would like to ask as well. 
SPOCK: It would appear so, Captain. 
SPOCK: But only two. More Organians will die. 
SPOCK: Difficult to be precise, Captain. I should say approximately 7,824.7 to 1. 
SPOCK: 7,824.7 to 1. 
SPOCK: I endeavour to be accurate. 
SPOCK: Very good. 
SPOCK: Clear, Captain. 
SPOCK: Less than seven thousand to one, Captain. It's remarkable we've got this far. 
SPOCK: (taking his weapon) I believe you'll find that several of them are no longer in perfect operating condition. 
SPOCK: You may be premature. There are many possibilities. 
SPOCK: Inexplicable, Captain. Extreme heat. Not only the weapons but the bodies as well. 
SPOCK: Fascinating. Pure energy. Pure thought. Totally incorporeal. Not life as we know it at all. 
SPOCK: Conventionalisations, I should say. Useless to the Organians. Created so that visitors such as ourselves, could have conventional points of reference. 
SPOCK: We have seen it with our own eyes. I should say the Organians are as far above us on the evolutionary scale as we are above the amoeba. 
SPOCK: You've been most restrained since we left Organia. 
SPOCK: Captain, it took millions of years for the Organians to evolve into what they are. Even the gods did not spring into being overnight. You and I have no reason to be embarrassed. We did, after all, beat the odds. 
SPOCK: I believe we'll have them plotted in a few more orbits, Captain. 
SPOCK: This is of great scientific importance, Captain. We're actually passing through ripples in time. 
SPOCK: All plotted but one, Captain. Coming up on it now. Seems to be fairly heavy displacement. 
SPOCK: The hypo, Captain. 
SPOCK: Empty. 
SPOCK: Confirmed by the library record tapes, Captain. Subjects failed to recognise acquaintances, became hysterically convinced that they were in mortal danger, and were seeking escape at any cost. Extremely dangerous to himself or to anyone else who might 
SPOCK: And the transporter at that time, Captain, was focused on the centre of the time disturbance. 
SPOCK: And of considerable age. On the order of ten thousand centuries old. 
SPOCK: Unbelievable, Captain. 
SPOCK: This single object is the source of all the time displacement. 
SPOCK: I can't. For this to do what it does is impossible by any science I understand. It is operating even now. Putting out waves and waves of time displacement, which we picked up millions of miles away. 
SPOCK: Incredible power. It can't be a machine as we understand mechanics. 
SPOCK: I see no reason for answers to be couched in riddles. 
SPOCK: A time portal, Captain. A gateway to other times and dimensions, if I'm correct. 
SPOCK: Really. 
SPOCK: Relive the accident. This time be certain that the hypo accident is avoided. Look at the speed with which the centuries are passing, Captain. To step through on precisely the day we wish 
SPOCK: I am a fool. My tricorder is capable of recording even at this speed. I've missed taping centuries of living history which no man before has ever 
SPOCK: With no past, no future. 
SPOCK: I was recording images at the time McCoy left. A rather barbaric period in your American history. I believe I can approximate just when to jump. Perhaps within a month of the correct time. A week, if we're fortunate. 
SPOCK: There is no alternative. 
SPOCK: Seconds now, sir. Stand by. 
SPOCK: And now. 
SPOCK: It was called Depression, circa 1930. Quite barbaric. 
SPOCK: I'm afraid I'm going to be difficult to explain in any case, Captain. 
SPOCK: That should prove interesting. 
SPOCK: Fascinating. 
SPOCK: Theft, Captain? 
SPOCK: You were saying you'll have no trouble explaining it. 
SPOCK: Perhaps the unfortunate accident I had as a child. 
SPOCK: Oh, yes, it's quite untidy. Here, let me help you. 
SPOCK: Captain, I hardly believe that insults are within your prerogative as my commanding officer. 
SPOCK: First, I believe we have about a week before McCoy arrives, but we can't be certain. 
SPOCK: There is a theory. There could be some logic to the belief that time is fluid, like a river, with currents, eddies, backwash. 
SPOCK: Unless that is true, Captain, we have no hope. Frustrating. Locked in here is the place and moment of his arrival, even the images of what he did. If only I could tie this tricorder in with the ship's computers for just a few moments. 
SPOCK: In this zinc-plated vacuum-tubed culture? 
SPOCK: At what rate of payment? I need radio tubes and so forth. My hobby. 
SPOCK: Yes, of course, Captain. 
SPOCK: Speculation. Gifted insight. 
SPOCK: We have a what, Captain? 
SPOCK: One might have said so in the first place. 
SPOCK: Captain, I must have some platinum. A small block would be sufficient, five or six pounds. By passing certain circuits through there to be used as a duodynetic field core. 
SPOCK: Captain, you're asking me to work with equipment which hardly very far ahead of stone knives and bearskins. 
SPOCK: Captain. Captain, in three weeks at this rate, possibly a month, I might reach the first mnemonic memory circuits. 
SPOCK: I am endeavouring, ma'am, to construct a mnemonic memory circuit using stone knives and bearskins. 
SPOCK: Captain. Tools for finely detailed work. 
SPOCK: I needed the fine tools for my radio work. They'd have been returned in the morning. 
SPOCK: Interesting. Where would you estimate we belong, Miss Keeler? 
SPOCK: I'll finish with the furnace. 
SPOCK: I may have found our focal point in time. 
SPOCK: Yes. I'm overloading those lines. I believe we'll have our answer on this screen. 
SPOCK: And, Captain, you may find this a bit distressing. 
SPOCK: I've slowed down the recording we made from the time vortex. 
SPOCK: Bad enough. 
SPOCK: It would seem unlikely, Jim. A few moments ago, I read a 1930 newspaper article. 
SPOCK: Or Captain, Edith Keeler will die this year. I saw her obituary. Some sort of traffic accident. 
SPOCK: Captain, Edith Keeler is the focal point in time we've been looking for, the point that both we and Doctor McCoy have been drawn to. KIRK: She has two possible futures then, and depending on whether she lives or dies, all of history will be changed. And McCoy 
SPOCK: Is the random element. 
SPOCK: Or perhaps he prevents her from being killed. We don't know which. 
SPOCK: Captain, suppose we discover that in order to set things straight again, Edith Keeler must die? 
SPOCK: I'll need at least two more days before I dare make another attempt. 
SPOCK: Captain, our last bit of information was obtained at the expense of thirty hours work in fused and burned circuits. 
SPOCK: This is how history went after McCoy changed it. Here, in the late 1930s. A growing pacifist movement whose influence delayed the United States' entry into the Second World War. While peace negotiations dragged on, Germany had time to complete its heavy-water experiments. 
SPOCK: Because all this lets them develop the A-bomb first. There's no mistake, Captain. Let me run it again. Edith Keeler. Founder of the peace movement. 
SPOCK: She was right, but at the wrong time. With the A-bomb, and with their V2 rockets to carry them, Germany captured the world. 
SPOCK: And all this because McCoy came back and somehow kept her from dying in a street accident as she was meant to. We must stop him, Jim. 
SPOCK: We can estimate general happenings from these images, but I can't trace down precise actions at exact moments, Captain. I'm sorry. 
SPOCK: Jim, Edith Keeler must die. 
SPOCK: Captain, I did not plan to eavesdrop. 
SPOCK: I must point out that when she stumbled, she might have died right there, had you not caught her. 
SPOCK: We're not that sure of our facts. Who's to say when the exact time will come? Save her, do as your heart tells you to do, and millions will die who did not die before. 
SPOCK: What is it? 
SPOCK: No, Jim! 
SPOCK: He knows, Doctor. He knows. 
SPOCK: We were successful. 
SPOCK: As I speculated, Captain, the overall pattern of mass insanity destroying civilisations follows an almost straight line through this section of the galaxy. Over here the Beta Portilin system the ancient civilisations. Archaeologists have given us information indicating that they were the beginning. Two hundred years ago, Levinius Five was swept by mass insanity, then Theta Cygni Twelve. The last was Ingraham B, two years ago. 
SPOCK: The ship is a one-man vessel of Denevan configuration, Captain. He does not seem to be out of control. His course is straight for the sun. 
SPOCK: Outer hull temperature now four hundred and eighty degrees and rising. 
SPOCK: So are we. Hull temperature one thousand degrees and rising. The sun's gravimetric pull increasing. 
SPOCK: All clear, Captain. Hull temperature falling, gravimetric pull approaching tolerance level. 
SPOCK: Planet development is normal, Captain. Originally colonised as a freighting-line base in this area. 
SPOCK: No Federation contacts for over a year. 
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura has had no further response to our signals. Sensors report the expected number of humans on the planet surface. However, they are strangely quiet. Very little activity. 
SPOCK: They're here, Captain. In the buildings. Strangely quiescent. 
SPOCK: Captain, several people approaching. 
SPOCK: Indeed. They seemed most concerned for our safety. 
SPOCK: Their attitude was inconsistent with their actions. 
SPOCK: Captain, I understand how you must 
SPOCK: Notice the ventilator, Captain. Apparently they were trying to keep something outside from getting in. Obviously they were not entirely successful. 
SPOCK: That is correct. I am at a loss to understand it. 
SPOCK: The streets are extraordinarily quiet, Captain. We've seen no other Denevans, and the ones we stunned earlier were gone when we came out. 
SPOCK: A peculiar buzzing sound. We were about to investigate it. 
SPOCK: Incredible. Not only should it have been destroyed by our phasers, it does not even register on my tricorder. 
SPOCK: It is not life as we know or understand it. Yet t is obviously alive, it exists. 
SPOCK: Captain, I suggest we risk taking it aboard. 
SPOCK: No! No! (he sits up) 
SPOCK: (hoarsely) No, I won't. 
SPOCK: I must take the ship.
SPOCK: Down! I must take it down. 
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy. Captain. 
SPOCK: These restraints will no longer be necessary. Nor will your sedatives, Doctor. I'll be able to return to duty. I apologise for my weakness earlier when I tried to take control of the ship. I simply did not understand. 
SPOCK: I am a Vulcan, Doctor. Pain is a thing of the mind. The mind can be controlled. 
SPOCK: It is proving to be an inconvenience, but it is manageable. And the creature, with all of its thousands of parts, even now is pressuring me. (the pain indicator hits the top of the monitor) It wants this ship, but I am resisting. 
SPOCK: I have my own will, Captain. Let me help. 
SPOCK: I am a Vulcan. I am a Vulcan. There is no pain. 
SPOCK: I was. 
SPOCK: I have an errand on the planet's surface. You will beam me down to the same co-ordinates as before. 
SPOCK: That is an order, Mister Scott. 
SPOCK: Until the pain was gone, Captain. It has been discontinued by me. 
SPOCK: One of the creatures will have to be captured and analysed, Captain. We did not have a clear opportunity to do so earlier when I was attacked. Since my nervous system is already affected, as you pointed out, Doctor, I don't believe they can do much more to me. 
SPOCK: I am in complete control of myself, Doctor. The fact that I am here proves that I do not belong in bed. 
SPOCK: Thank you, Captain. 
SPOCK: Come in, gentlemen. I believe you'll find this interesting. (McCoy scans Spock.) Doctor, your medical skill and curiosity are quite admirable, but I assure you I'm all right. 
SPOCK: Unimportant at the moment, Doctor. Please observe. Interesting, gentlemen. A one-celled creature resembling, more than anything else, a huge, individual brain cell. 
SPOCK: Do you understand what I'm suggesting, Captain? 
SPOCK: And although it is not physically connected to the other cells, it is nevertheless part of the whole creature, guided by the whole, drawing its strength from the whole, which probably accounts for its unusual resistance to our phaser weapons. 
SPOCK: From a place where our physical laws do not apply. We may therefore find it difficult to destroy, Captain. 
SPOCK: Yes, sir. 
SPOCK: I regret I see no other choice for you, Captain. We already know this thing has destroyed three civilisations. Perhaps more. 
SPOCK: Including myself, Doctor, and Captain Kirk's young nephew. Understandably upsetting, but once it spreads past here, there are dozens of colonies beyond and billions of people. 
SPOCK: I therefore request permission to beam down to the planet's surface. I also suggest that your nephew accompany me. 
SPOCK: Captain, I do not make this request lightly. I do not know how much longer I can hold out against the pain. But I do know what the boy will go through should he regain consciousness. 
SPOCK: It exists physically. It occupies space. It has mass, therefore gravity. It converts matter to energy. 
SPOCK: A possibility. 
SPOCK: Yes. In essence, it can be done. A string of satellites around the planet with burning tri-magnesite and trevium. 
SPOCK: Of course. The light of the sun at the proximity where the Denevan declared himself free was one million candles per square inch. If this works, the satellites we orbit will produce light of such intensity that even someone in a closed, darkened area will be affected by it. 
SPOCK: Captain, you'll need a host for the next step in the test to determine whether the creature can be driven from the body. I am the logical choice. 
SPOCK: There'll be none on the planet's surface, Doctor. 
SPOCK: The creature within me is gone. I am free of it and the pain. 
SPOCK: And I'm also quite blind. An equitable trade, Doctor. Thank you. 
SPOCK: Interesting. Just as dogs are sensitive to certain sounds which humans cannot hear, these creatures evidently are sensitive to light which we cannot see. 
SPOCK: Doctor it was my selection as well. It is done. 
SPOCK: An hereditary trait, Captain. The brightness of the Vulcan sun has caused the development of an inner eyelid, which acts as a shield against high-intensity light. Totally instinctive, Doctor. We tend to ignore it, as you ignore your own appendix. 
SPOCK: Quite the contrary, Captain. I had a very strong reaction. My first sight was the face of Doctor McCoy bending over me. 
SPOCK: My pleasure, Captain. 
SPOCK: Why, thank you, Doctor McCoy. 
